README.md, before:

# CleanRepo

This command-line tool helps you clean up a DocFx-based content repo. It can:

- find and delete markdown files that aren't linked from a TOC file
- find and delete orphaned image (.png, .jpg, .gif, .svg) files
- find and delete orphaned snippet (.cs, .vb) files
- find and delete orphaned "shared" markdown files
- "clean" an .openpublishing.redirection.json file
- find and replace links to redirected files
- replace site-relative links with file-relative links (includes image links)
- find topics that appear more than once in a TOC file

## Usage

  -d, --directory        Top-level directory in which to perform clean up (for
                         example, find orphaned markdown files).

  --orphaned-topics      Use this option to find orphaned topics.

  --multiples            Use this option to find topics that appear more than
                         once in one or separate TOC.md files.

  --orphaned-images      Find orphaned .png, .gif, .svg, or .jpg files.

  --orphaned-snipets     Find orphaned .cs and .vb files.

  --orphaned-includes    Find orphaned INCLUDE files.

  -g, --delete           (Default: False) Delete orphaned markdown or
                         .png/.jpg/.gif files.

  --clean-redirects      Clean redirection JSON file by replacing targets that
                         are themselves redirected.

  --replace-redirects    Find backlink to redirected files and replace with new
                         target.

  --redirects-file       Optionally specify a path to a redirect JSON file in a
                         different repo.

  --relative-links       Replace site-relative links with file-relative links.
                         You must also specify the docset name for the repo.

  --docset-name          The docset name that corresponds to the root of this
                         repo in a URL, e.g. 'visualstudio' in
                         'http://docs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/ide/get-started
                         '.

  --docset-root          The full path to the root directory for the docset,
                         e.g. 'c:\users\gewarren\dotnet-docs\docs'.

  -s, --recursive        (Default: True) Search directory and all
                         subdirectories for markdown, yaml, image, and include
                         files (depending on chosen function).

  --help                 Display this help screen.

## Usage examples

Find orphaned topics recursively (that is, in the specified directory and any subdirectories):

```
CleanRepo.exe --orphaned-topics -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

Find orphaned topics non-recursively (that is, only in the specified directory):

```
CleanRepo.exe --orphaned-topics -s false -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

Find and delete orphaned .png/.gif/.jpg/.svg files (recursive):

```
CleanRepo.exe --orphaned-images -g -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide --docset-name visualstudio
```

Find and delete orphaned .cs/.vb files (recursive):

```
CleanRepo.exe --orphaned-snippets -g -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide\snippets
```

Find and delete shared markdown files that are orphaned (recursive):

```
CleanRepo.exe --orphaned-includes -g -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

Clean the .openpublishing.redirection.json file by replacing any redirect URLs with their respective redirect URL, if it exists:

```
CleanRepo.exe --clean-redirects --docset-name visualstudio --docset-root c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs
```

Find topics with backlinks to redirected topics and replace the links with their target URL:

```
CleanRepo.exe --replace-redirects -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

  > [!TIP]
  > Some redirect targets are themselves redirected to yet another target. For this reason, it's recommended to run the --clean-redirects option before the --replace-redirects option.

Replace site-relative links to the specified docset with file-relative links, when the file exists (includes image links):

```
CleanRepo.exe --relative-links --docset-name visualstudio --docset-root c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

Search recursively for topics that appear more than once in a TOC file:

```
CleanRepo.exe -m -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

## Future functionality ideas...

- Find orphaned code snippets

Commit message:

Migrate from Newtonsoft.Json to STJ; write page view data to output file; limit trimming to first 250 redirects.

README.md, after:

# CleanRepo

This command-line tool helps you clean up a DocFx-based content repo. It can:

- find and delete markdown files that aren't linked from a TOC file
- find and delete orphaned image (.png, .jpg, .gif, .svg) files
- find and delete orphaned snippet (.cs, .vb) files
- find and delete orphaned "shared" markdown files
- trim unused redirect entries from an .openpublishing.redirection.json file
- remove "hops" in redirect entries
- find and replace links to redirected files
- replace site-relative links with file-relative links (includes image links)
- find articles that appear more than once in a TOC file

## Usage

  -d, --directory        Top-level directory in which to perform clean up (for
                         example, find orphaned markdown files).

  --orphaned-topics      Use this option to find orphaned topics.

  --multiples            Use this option to find topics that appear more than
                         once in one or separate TOC.md files.

  --orphaned-images      Find orphaned .png, .gif, .svg, or .jpg files.

  --orphaned-snippets    Find orphaned .cs and .vb files.

  --orphaned-includes    Find orphaned INCLUDE files.

  -g, --delete           (Default: False) Delete orphaned markdown or .png/.jpg/.gif files.

  --remove-hops          Replace redirect targets that are themselves redirected.

  --replace-redirects    Find backlinks to redirected files and replace with new target.

  --trim-redirects       Remove redirect entries for links that haven't been clicked in the specified number of days.

  --lookback-days        (Default: 90) The number of days to check for link-click activity.

  --redirects-file       Optionally specify a path to a redirect JSON file in a different repo.

  --relative-links       Replace site-relative links with file-relative links.
                         You must also specify the docset name for the repo.

  --docset-name          The docset name that corresponds to the root of this
                         repo in a URL, e.g. 'visualstudio' in
                         'http://docs.microsoft.com/visualstudio/ide/get-started'.

  --docset-root          The full path to the root directory for the docset, e.g. 'c:\users\gewarren\dotnet-docs\docs'.

  -s, --recursive        (Default: True) Search directory and all
                         subdirectories for markdown, yaml, image, and include
                         files (depending on chosen function).

## Usage examples

Find orphaned articles recursively (that is, in the specified directory and any subdirectories):

```
CleanRepo.exe --orphaned-topics -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

Find orphaned topics non-recursively (that is, only in the specified directory):

```
CleanRepo.exe --orphaned-topics -s false -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

Find and delete orphaned .png/.gif/.jpg/.svg files (recursive):

```
CleanRepo.exe --orphaned-images -g -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide --docset-name visualstudio
```

Find and delete orphaned .cs/.vb files (recursive):

```
CleanRepo.exe --orphaned-snippets -g -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide\snippets
```

Find and delete shared markdown files that are orphaned (recursive):

```
CleanRepo.exe --orphaned-includes -g -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

Remove entries in the .openpublishing.redirection.json file that haven't been clicked in the last 180 days:

```
CleanRepo.exe --trim-redirects --docset-name dotnet --docset-root c:\users\gewarren\dotnet-docs\docs --lookback-days 180
```

Remove bunny hops in the .openpublishing.redirection.json file by replacing any redirect URLs with their respective redirect URL, if it exists:

```
CleanRepo.exe --remove-hops --docset-name visualstudio --docset-root c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs
```

Find articles with backlinks to redirected topics, and replace the links with their target URL:

```
CleanRepo.exe --replace-redirects -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

  > [!TIP]
  > Some redirect targets are themselves redirected to yet another target. For this reason, it's recommended to run the --remove-hops option before the --replace-redirects option.

Replace site-relative links to the specified docset with file-relative links, when the file exists (includes image links):

```
CleanRepo.exe --relative-links --docset-name visualstudio --docset-root c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

Search recursively for articles that appear more than once in a TOC file:

```
CleanRepo.exe -m -d c:\repos\visualstudio-docs-pr\docs\ide
```

## Future functionality ideas...

- Find orphaned code snippets
